---
title: "FAQs"
description: "Frequently Asked Questions"
layout: post
permalink: "faq"
---
I have been getting a lot of questions from LinkedIn on the course, and though of documenting the popular ones. The official site does include a lot of valuable resources, and you should get in the habit of checking them from time to time.

# General
There are a lot of resources out there that have a greater depth of information. I am adding this section to serve as a pointer to the relevant resources.

## How to apply?
First of all, you'll need a valid TOEFL score (above 100 out of 120). TOEFL score remains valid for two years and should remain valid when the session starts. Next, you need to fill out the application form (start [here](https://omscs.gatech.edu/apply-now)). As part of this form, you have to write some essay questions and get three letters of recommendation. The application window is open at certain times of the year. Find more information at [https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-info/application-deadlines-process-requirements](https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-info/application-deadlines-process-requirements).

## What are the prerequisites?
Having a CS bachelor's background is helpful but not mandatory. Having an undergraduate degree in Electrical or Electronics is also a plus. But I have seen people from non-technical backgrounds getting accepted and also being successful in the course. If you have a passion for learning and put in dedicated hours to the course, and spend time covering up the pre-requisites, you should be able to do good.

## How much does the course cost?
The cost of the degree is subject to how many credit hours you have taken in one semester. For one course per semester (3 credit hours), it currently amounts to $841.00 per semester. Check out the [Registration and Fees]({{ site.baseurl }}/registration) page here to get an idea in INR.

## Can I preview the courses?
Yes. All the offered courses are currently available on Udacity. Georgia Tech is moving away from Udacity, so these courses might not be available in the future. 
What are the specializations offered?
Currently, the program offers four specializations:
- Computational Perception & Robotics
- Computing Systems
- Interactive Intelligence
- Machine Learning

Read more about this at [https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-info/specializations](https://omscs.gatech.edu/program-info/specializations).

## Where can I find more FAQs?
The official FAQ for the course is at [https://omscs.gatech.edu/prospective-students/faq](https://omscs.gatech.edu/prospective-students/faq). Reddit's [r/OMSCS](https://www.reddit.com/r/OMSCS/) is also a vibrant community.

## How much workload is there per semester/per course?
It depends on the course you are taking and the level of competence you have for its prerequisites. [OMSCentral](https://omscentral.com/) collects reviews and presents average difficulty and workload per subject. You'll need to go through some reviews to figure out what is the most likely workload for you (it ranges from 5 hours per week to 30 hours per week)! 

# Personal

## Why are you taking this course?
I have been working as a Software Professional from the start of my career, while I hold an undergraduate degree in Electrical Engineering. I intend to continue in this path and this degree will help me close some gaps on the basics (OS, architecture, etc.) while future-proofing my skill with Machine Learning.

## Do you have plans to move to the US?
No. While I do like to travel, I do not intend to settle out of India. I love the option to get back home whenever I want!

## Does your company sponsor the course?
I prefer not to answer this. It is a discussion you should have with your manager and HR, and will often be guided by company policy. If it is not sponsored, you might have to re-evaluate if you want to spend the money from your pocket.

## How do you balance work-life-study balance?
Thanks to COVID-19, "life" has been taken out of the equation! Honestly, it is hectic with just one course per semester. It needs a lot of self-control to choose lecture videos over Netflix after a hard day's work. I generally take a day off every month, either to catch up on coursework or to lay low and relax for a day. It is essential to keep track of mental wellbeing and avoid burning out. 